[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We said in the slides,
before I introed the exercise,
we said in the slides portion that one
of the ways to turn a stateful program,
a side effect program into a pure program,
is to pass in the entire
universe of state.
Now there's lots of
different ways to do that.
You can pass it in as an object,
of course.
Here, we're just being very
simple to illustrate the concept.
There's a couple of variables
that represent the state.
So what are those variables that represent
the state, and let's look closely.
Does x represent the state of our program?
Not really.
x is a parameter to the universe, but
it's not really part of the state.
So we don't necessarily need to
represent x in some stateful fashion,
although we're gonna need x.
So it's gonna need to be
one of our arguments.
Well, what about y?
y clearly is something
that changes over time.
It's incremented there on line 2.
Something that changes over time,
it is part of our state.
So we're gonna need to pass in
that initialization of that state,
initializing it, of course,
to 5, like we do on line 6.
So, y is part of our state.
And z, is z part of our universe?
Does z change over time?
Well, z is an output of our program, but
it's not something that
is reused each time.
It's reset, and
we just assign it on line 3, and
it doesn't matter whatever
value it previously had.
So, z is not actually something we need
to import as part of the state of our
universe, it's just something that's
going to represent an output, okay?
So, all of that notion is just
to help you with the concept.
The syntactic things aren't gonna
look very much different from
what we already do.
So, let's use a bar,
and I used, by the way,
these function boo bar sorts of things,
because if I gave you too heavy of
something that was kind of a specific
problem domain, then it starts to get
a little bit like your brain has to not
only wrap your head around these concepts,
but your brain also has to wrap your head
around that particular problem domain.
And if it's one you're familiar with,
great, if not, well,
now you have two things to learn.
And I want you to have as few
things to learn as possible.
So that's why I use the foo and
the bar thing.
But we will, to whatever extent possible,
try to make these things a little
bit more concrete as we go along.
All right, so, one thing I'm gonna do, and
this is just a complete pure side note,
but I have taken recently
in my programming
to inverting the way I normally used
to write the functions at the top and
the executable code at the bottom of any
particular scope, any particular file,
or any particular function.
And I now do the reverse.
And the reason I do that is because it's
much easier, I've found this maintenance
wise to be much easier to open up
a file or to look at a function, and
at the very top,
be able to see everything that it's doing.
And then I rely upon function decorations
and the fact that function decorations
are hoisted to,
that they'll be definable soon.
So I can call foo before it's
technically been declared,
because JavaScript is compiled and
the scope is gonna take care of that
with the shorthand way of
talking about that is hoisting.
I talk more about that in the books and
in the advanced training video,
if you're more interested in that.
But I'm gonna move the function
to the bottom just because
I'm trying to practice that more
as a discipline for myself.
I find that to make code a little
bit easier to understand.
So why is it going to be
a variable like a local variable?
It's gonna be something
that's passed in for sure.
And in fact, we're also gonna pass in x.
Cuz we need that x value to be used.
So I'm not gonna declare y or
x as variables, but
I do need a z because I'm gonna
need to be able to return a z.
So the foo function,
as we know it, takes an x.
Now I don't have to pass the x in.
I could take the x out, and
just simply reference it.
You'll notice there that on line 8,
I have an x, and I can reference that.
That's gonna be called closure.
But we're not getting to
the closure point yet.
So I'm gonna formally pass in the x.
And that means the x needs
to be passed in here.
Whatever the x was given to my universe,
I'm gonna pass that in to
this inner impure function.
Now you notice that I'm changing a y.
That, of course, is changing it as
a result of that lexical scope,
that closure over the y.
And also the z, it's changing the z.
So I'm gonna call the function foo.
And then I know that my y and
my z have been set to their proper
values for the end of my program.
So what I need to do,
just simply return them, and
I'm gonna encapsulate them in something,
and a functional programmer usually turns
to an array when they wanna
encapsulate some value.
Lists are particularly convenient,
and we'll get more to lists later.
So, I'm just gonna simply return my y and
my z.
Now, you notice I'm not returning x.
I could, but
x isn't something that's changing as
a result of any of what we're doing.
It's just simply an input to my universe.
It's a starting state,
it's an initial state, so
I don't really need to return it.
So I really only need to
return that which changed,
that which would be something
that somebody wanted to observe.
Now, if somebody didn't care about
observing y, for example, of course,
this program changes y,
so you probably do.
But if you didn't care about changing y,
you wouldn't even wanna return that.
You only wanna return that which
somebody would wanna observe.
Okay, so that's our bar function.
And it's gonna execute the foo function,
and
then return the result of
whatever those values are.
Clearly on the inside, this function
is as impure as it gets, okay?
Hopefully, everybody can agree with that.
But from the outside perspective,
now, bar takes in a universe, and
it returns back a result.
And nothing on the outside of bar
changes a result of calling bar,
which means we can call bar over and over
and over again with the same inputs and
get the same outputs.
That's how we've made it pure.
So just to illustrate that, instead of
calling these foo variables down here,
I'm gonna call a bar.
I'm gonna pass in an x,
which in this case, was the 20, and
I'm going to pass in a y.
You remember, I've taken it out now,
but remember,
our initial value state that
we cared about with y was 5.
So if I pass in the value 20 and
ask for the value 5 back,
what am I getting?
Well, let's run through it just to make
sure, and then you can, of course,
execute this in the console
of your browser if you care.
But if I pass in 20 as x,
20's gonna come in as x.
If I pass in 5 as y, 5 is gonna become 6.
And then I'm gonna say 6 * 20 which
is 120, and that's gonna be my z.
So what am I expecting
back as my return value?
I'm expecting back an array with 6 and
120.
And if you try it, you'll notice
that you get that value back, okay?
Now, if I called bar(20,
5) again, I'm gonna
get the exact same state back because
now I'm dealing with a pure function.
There are no side effects,
it's a pure function, okay?
And of course, if I call bar with 25 and
I call it with 6 now because 6 was my
new state that I'm observing from y.
If I take that state and I pump that
back in as the starting point for
my second run of this universe,
now 6 is gonna become 7.
7*25, we're gonna get,
y is gonna be what now?
>> Speaker 2: 7.
>> Kyle Simpson: 7, and we're gonna get
125 back, okay.